# WECG Meetings 2022, Public Notes, Oct 13

 * Chair: Simeon Vincent
 * Scribes: Rob Wu

Time: 8 AM PDT = https://everytimezone.com/?t=63475500,384
Call-in details: [WebExtensions CG, 13th October 2022](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/d7bbce8f-549f-46ea-b440-ea6902f8707c/20221013T080000)
Zoom issues? Ping @robwu (Rob Wu) in [chat](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#joining-chat)


## Agenda: [github issues](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues)

The meeting will start at 3 minutes after the hour.

 * **Carry-over from previous meetings**
   * None
 * **Other new issues**
   * [Issue 287](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/287): Allow workers & shared workers to be created within an extension service worker
   * [Issue 288](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/288): Inconsistency: Host permissions in Manifest V3
 * **Open discussion queue (add yourself at the bottom)**
   * The deliverables of the WECG and its meetings
 * **Check-in on ongoing issues**
   * Old housekeeping issues (Added by Carlos, in an attempt to reduce the amount of open issues)
     * [Issue 1](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/1): What to do with the older CG?
     * [Issue 9](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/9): New Issue Template
     * [Issue 29](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/29): Update contributing guide with info on current communication channels
     * [Issue 30](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/30): Set up Bikeshed spec pipeline
   * [Issue 282](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/282): Proposal: declaring background scripts in a neutral way
   * [Issue 281](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/281): Inconsistency: runtime.getURL()


## Attendees (sign yourself in)

 1. Rob Wu (Mozilla)
 2. Todd Schiller (PixieBrix)
 3. Frederic Rivain (Dashlane)
 4. Simeon Vincent (Google)
 5. Tim Heflin (Keeper)
 6. Benjamin Bruneau (1Password)
 7. Kiara Rose (Apple)
 8. Carlos Jeurissen (Jeurissen Apps)
 9. Oliver Dunk (1Password)
 10. Steven McLintock (1Password)
 11. Juha-Matti Santala (Mozilla)
 12. Brian Weinstein (Apple)
 13. Mukul Purohit (Microsoft)
 14. David Johnson (Apple)
 15. Luke Selker (Dashlane)
 16. Annie Chen (1Password)
 17. Tyler Carson (Keeper)
 18. Matt Gibson (Bitwarden)
 19. Richard Worth (Capital One)
 20. James Hycner (Keeper)


## Meeting notes

[Issue 287](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/287): Allow workers & shared workers to be created within an extension service worker

 * [simeon] In short, SW does not allow nested workers to be created. On the Chrome side we are supportive of this.
 * [rob] I think that we support nested workers in Firefox, but in any case we are supportive of this capability.
 * [timothy] Also supportive. May also make sense to have this be available on the open web.
 * [simeon] I was specifically talking about extensions, but agree that this would be a useful capability on the open web.
 * [frederic] What are the next steps?
 * [simeon] A representative of the group to reach out to the groups related to workers, e.g. Timothy or I.

[Issue 288](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/288): Inconsistency: Host permissions in Manifest V3

 * [timothy] Looks like a UI issue between Chrome and Edge. Out of scope for this group.
 * [simeon] Out of curiosity, how should we deal with UI differences, despite them being out of scope?
 * [timothy] There are always going to be UI differences, but I don't think that we can resolve them.
 * [simeon] How much utility is there in issues that seem interesting, but not part of the spec? Close and allow inactive discussion to continue?
 * [timothy] I'm in favor of closing it.
 * [rob] Also support closing it. Browser-specific (UI) issues should be reported on the browser-specific issue tracker.
 * [mukul] Please add Edge specific issue at https://github.com/microsoft/MicrosoftEdge-Extensions/

Old housekeeping issues (Added by Carlos, in an attempt to reduce the amount of open issues)

 * [Issue 1](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/1): What to do with the older CG?
   * [simeon] I've met with Florian, it's now on me to decommission the old repo etc.
 * [Issue 9](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/9): New Issue Template
   * [rob] We could link [issue 155](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/155) about external issue trackers. I'll create a template.
 * [Issue 29](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/29): Update contributing guide with info on current communication channels
   * [rob] I'll update this too.
 * [Issue 30](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/30): Set up Bikeshed spec pipeline
   * [mukul] I think that we've completed this already.
   * [simeon] I'll close the issue.

[Issue 282](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/282): Proposal: declaring background scripts in a neutral way

 * [simeon] Unfortunately, due to travel and schedule conflicts I have not been able to follow up yet. I plan to sync with the team on this and other issues next week.
 * [carlos] limited event pages; Could type:”module” be supported there too?
 * [rob] Yes. I had already created a Firefox bug for that: https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1775574
 * [timothy] I think that it makes sense to type:”module” for event pages. Not sure if we currently support that for Service workers, but I would be in favor of that for event pages.
 * [carlos] Should we file a separate WECG issue to track support for type:”module”?
 * [rob] Yes.
 * [carlos] Done: https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/289

The deliverables of the WECG and its meetings

 * [simeon] During TPAC we discussed allocating meeting time to working on the specification.
 * [oliver] Since we're usually running out of time, a separate meeting would make sense.
 * [timothy] I am supportive of another meeting if we keep filing this meeting.
 * [simeon] Historically, we have used all of our time for discussions. If we half the time for the usual discussions, when we would lose time for the open discussion.
 * [rob] So far most of the meetings have been filled with useful discussions. So far we have a lot of issues where we have loose consensus, but have not followed through on and driven to completion. Suggest triaging old issues to identify such items.
 * [simeon] Sounds valuable, even if just to clean up our backlog of open issues. Identifying items where we are all aligned is a good use of organizer's time.
 * [timothy] At TPAC we came up with the idea of gathering WebIDL files. I think it makes sense to create a directory in the WECG github and collect IDL files. I would be willing to do that and submit PRs with Safari's IDL files.
 * [rob] Sounds useful. With the IDL files present it'll be easier for other browser vendors to verify interoperability in terms of API surface.
 * [simeon] We have just identified two large tasks: going through the backlog and submitting IDL files. We can divide these tasks - I will go through the backlog and Timothy to curate the IDL files.

[Issue 281](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/281): Inconsistency: runtime.getURL()

 * [carlos] Safari [has filed issues](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/281#issuecomment-1271032982) for inconsistencies 1, 2 and 11. What's the status?
 * [timothy] Have filed the issues but no progress on that yet.
 * [timothy] Some inconsistencies are due to canonicalization of URLs, which Firefox and Safari do, but Chrome doesn't.
 * [rob] Inconsistencies in the string representation of the URL are fine, as long as the resolved URL maps to a valid resource when it should.
   * [simeon] +1. Inconsistencies resulting in a material difference between browsers would be of interest.
   * [timothy] +1
 * Is there any practical impact of the different outcomes among the reported inconsistencies?
 * [carlos] Inconsistency 3, where the return value of getURL() can return a non-extension URL, can potentially be a security issue.
 * [rob] Agreed with that.
 * [simeon] Could these examples be added to a test suite?

The next meeting will be on [Thursday, October 27th, 8 AM PDT (3 PM UTC)](https://everytimezone.com/?t=6359ca00,384).
