# WECG Meetings 2022, Public Notes, Jul 7

 * Chair: Timothy Hatcher
 * Scribes: Rob Wu

Time: 8 AM PST = https://everytimezone.com/?t=62c62200,3c0
Call-in details: [WebExtensions CG, 7th July 2022](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/d7bbce8f-549f-46ea-b440-ea6902f8707c/20220707T080000)
Zoom issues? Ping @zombie (Tomislav Jovanovic) in [chat](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#joining-chat)


## Agenda: [discussion in #236](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/236), [github issues](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues)

The meeting will start at 3 minutes after the hour.

 * **Carry-over from previous meetings**
   * None
 * **Other new issues**
   * [Issue 235](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/235): Discuss allowing extensions to reliably draw over pages
   * [Issue 12](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/12): allow to retrieve a frameID from an &lt;iframe> element
 * **Open discussion queue (add yourself at the bottom)**
   * None
 * **Check-in on ongoing issues**
   * [Issue 229](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/229): Extension Icon Design for Light/Dark/Custom Theme on Browser Toolbar
   * [Issue 107](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/107): Proposal: deprecate i18n.getAcceptLanguages
   * [Pull 221](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/221): Add host_permissions and optional_host_permissions
   * [Issue 162](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/162): DNR: disable individual static rules


## Attendees (sign yourself in)

 1. Rob Wu (Mozilla)
 2. Jessie Berlin (Apple)
 3. Tomislav Jovanovic (Mozilla)
 4. Rainer Enders (Keeper Security)
 5. Giorgio Maone (NoScript)
 6. Jack Works (Sujitech)
 7. Tim Heflin (Keeper Security)
 8. Simeon Vincent (Google)
 9. Gaurang Tandon (Blaze Today)
 10. Felipe Erias (Igalia)
 11. Oliver Dunk (1Password)
 12. Bastien Granger (Dashlaner)
 13. Nick McGuire (1Password)
 14. Timothy Hatcher (Apple)
 15. Steven McLintock (1Password)
 16. Tyler Carson (Keeper)
 17. Mukul Purohit (Microsoft)
 18. Sam Macbeth (DuckDuckGo)
 19. Alexei (Privacy Badger)


## Meeting notes

[Issue 235](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/235): Discuss allowing extensions to reliably draw over pages

 * [timothy] Brought up by Oliver, that extensions cannot reliably draw over all web content.
 * [oliver] Would be nice to have an extension API to support drawing over content, as a more reliable replacement for using a content script that adds DOM with a high z-index.
 * [timothy] Does CSS cascade layers help here?
 * [oliver] Lots of work and hard to get right.
 * [simeon] Discussed with the Chrome team last week; immediate concern are security concerns. Granting extensions capabilities that web pages don't have in the page's content. We don't have a special allowance for extensions. Anything that the extension can do on the page is in the same process. There is currently no way to do something specific to an extension-specific layer.
 * [rob] That concern would also be valid for DevTools. Extensions can insert something in the page. What is the concern of a specific extension API over their current alternative (modifying the web content) which can be observed/intercepted by the web page for sure?
 * [simeon] Broad concern over extension capabilities rather than this specific concern.
 * [timothy] DevTools is a good example of specialized content being drawn over a webview. I see extensions in part as a way to experiment with new browser capabilities. Things like devtools highlighting would be very difficult to do without the ability to draw over everything. Or searching on a page where we dim out all content except matches. Don't buy into the security concern, this doesn't add much that extensions cannot already do. Would be a useful thing to explore and consider.
 * [tomislav] From what I understand of how show dialog works, we would use a graphical layer that sits on top of everything else. This would be strongly new functionality. Doesn't need to be handled by a separate process. Worth exploring, not seeing blocking security concerns either.
 * [giorgio] If you explore something like that, could it be made to be unobservable by the web page, to prevent the page from hijacking the extension? Conceptually like a document overlaid over the page.
 * [tomislav] Would a custom element with a closed shadow root cover this use case?
 * [rob] In Firefox there have been a number of feature requests in the past for this and similar capabilities. Oliver, would you be interested in drafting something here?
 * [oliver] Yes, definitely.

[Issue 12](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/12): allow to retrieve a frameID from an &lt;iframe> element

 * [gaurang] Has there been any update on the security aspect of this?
 * [timothy] This API has already shipped in Safari and Firefox.
 * [simeon] I don't have an update on this from Chrome's perspective. I just put the label on the issue to request Chrome feedback.

 [Issue 229](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/229): Extension Icon Design for Light/Dark/Custom Theme on Browser Toolbar

 * [timothy] Much async discussion on the bug since the last time we discussed this.
 * [carlos] Proposal is to use Firefox's current theme_icons syntax and postpone breaking changes to MV4.
 * [simeon] Does this also have a runtime API, or only a static declaration in manifest.json
 * [tomislav] Firefox does not support changing this through a runtime API, but we are not against supporting that.
 * [timothy] I suppose that extensions can already use matchesMedia and update the icon independently.
 * [simeon] Probably not that big of a concern with other browsers (since they support event pages), but in Chrome matchesMedia is not available in Service workers. This functionality could be accessed through the Offscreen document feature that we're working on.
 * [simeon] In response to the concern of callbacks to update the icon at runtime: It would be interesting to explore worklets (like audio worklets and CSS worklets) as lightweight alternatives to spawning the whole worker.
 * [timothy] Yeah, it could be interesting. Generally not great to have JS in the render path, but I know that's the direction some CSS capabilities are going.

[Issue 107](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/107)**:** Proposal: deprecate i18n.getAcceptLanguages

 * [carlos] Given that the extension platform prefers to use web platform capabilities where possible, seems like this API is providing the same functionality as navigator.languages.
 * [rob] If the two APIs are completely identical, it could make sense to remove it. Examples of differences could be redaction of navigator.languages values due to privacy reasons.
 * [simeon] Not fully sure, but I think that Chrome has a privacy budget that reduces the amount of fingerprinting, so this could be a relevant concern.
 * [timothy] If that is the case, it could be a reason to keep it.
 * [timothy] This is very Chrome-specific, but there is no reason for content scripts in their own script world to not be exempted from the privacy budget of the page.
 * [simeon] That's a fair point.
 * [rob] The resolution here is that we could potentially deprecate this in MV4, IF the i18n.getAcceptLanguages is really fully equivalent to navigator.languages.

[PR 221](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/221): Add host_permissions and optional_host_permissions

 * [timothy] I've approved it.
 * [simeon] And I've merged it.
 * [timothy] Does Chrome already support this, or is it coming?
 * [simeon] It landed in Chrome 102.
 * [timothy] How do we mark/label issues that are completed? [Issue 119](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/119) can be resolved.
   * [rob] In [issue 205](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/205) I raised that we don't have labels to discuss that.
   * [simeon] I'll ponder on this after the meeting. Thinking of "status: something" labels.
 * [tomislav] We kept support for host permissions in the optional_permissions key, because we recognized the need for host_permissions and optional_permissions.
 * [rob] Tom, since we haven't shipped a final implementation of MV3 yet, and there is broad support for optional_host_permissions now, would it make sense for us to change the behavior and introduce support for optional_host_permissions without hosts in optional_permissions?
 * [timothy] I recommend that, in Safari we stopped parsing hosts in optional_permissions for v3 extensions.
 * [tomislav] I think that makes sense.

[Issue 162](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/162): DNR: disable individual static rules

 * [timothy] Felipe presented benchmarking last time to present the perf impact in Chromium of disabling individual rules.
 * [felipe] Shared a test extension used for the benchmark.
 * [simeon] No updates yet from my (Chrome) end. Intending to ask our engineers to provide feedback on your CL and design doc.
 * [timothy] Will take some time to talk internally with engineers who may have a more informed opinion here.

Reflection on state of WECG

 * [timothy] This WECG is now about a year old. Would like to spend more time on writing up a spec. The issues / feature requests raised are great, but I would also like us to work on a spec as initially announced in our charter. We're past the inflection point for MV3, it is time to start talking about MV4 - for that we need to write the foundation down, on which we can build upon.
 * [tomislav] I have been investigating the minimal set of functionality to extend the wpt test suite to support the ability to load extensions with a specific manifest. Everything that we write in prose should include tests with success/failure cases. Since we're starting with specifying the manifest, the bare minimum would be a method that loads the manifest and resolves/rejects.
 * [timothy] While I'd love to see tests, even examples of valid/invalid versions would be nice, especially since we don't have support in WebDriver yet.
 * [tomislav] My goal is to have any way to (automatically) verify whether a way to write the manifest is correct.
 * [timothy] In the long-run, WebDriver is probably the right approach here.
 * [rob] Have we thought of a specific day on TPAC to discuss this?
 * [simeon] We have some ideas on areas to focus on, but no specific next steps yet. Was thinking of starting with creating a list of areas to focus on, and adding more tasks (such as who to talk to) to [issue 232](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/232) (WECG at TPAC 2022).

[Issue 231](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/231): Extension API to find the public suffix (eTLD) of a given URL/domain

 * [rob] Last time we discussed a public suffix issue. On the Firefox side a Firefox engineer replied with some thoughts on why the security issues raised thus far are not that big of a concern. Any updates on the Chrome side, Simeon?
 * [simeon] Nothing since our last conversation.
 * [rob] Will add a “Chrome: follow-up” label

[Issue 227](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/227): Making host permissions optional by default appears to be harmful for extensions with global host permissions

 * [alexei] Haven't got feedback from browser vendors yet. This is one of the top most popular issues in the Github repository.
 * [jessie] (Apple) This is an important privacy feature for our users.
 * [timothy] This is something Chrome has been trying to encourage for a while with activeTab. As we implemented web extensions in Safari, we reassessed the current state of capability grants and believe this is an important change for improving user privacy.
 * [tomislav] One of your points is “does not curb malicious extensions”. This is not just about malicious extensions, this is about giving users control over where extensions can run. I don't see how you can disagree with that point in general. If you have specific actionable items, please mention them.
 * [alexei] This is not an issue with empowering users, but with the default behavior.
 * [tomislav] I'm a little surprised with that view. This has been going on for a while in mobile apps, where permissions are optional and granted in context. The EFF is welcoming these kinds of changes.
 * [alexei] I'm speaking from experience as a developer of a fairly popular extension. Extensions are not apps. Apps requesting geolocation (for example) is an enhancement, extensions requesting host permissions, that capability is \*required\* for the extension to function. Giving users more control is great, but confusing users who did not ask for this control and just want the extension to work is not.
 * [rob] The basics of having host permissions as optional by default is good in principle, additional grants are a UX concern. Focus the feedback on improving the permission granting flow instead of a blanket statement that opt-in permissions are harmful.
 * [alexei] I'm trying to raise an alarm here, I think that you're not aware of the impact of this on extensions and users.
 * [rob] I am aware, at least.
 * [timothy] We're definitely aware.

The next meeting will be on [Thursday, July 21st, 8 AM PST (3 PM UTC)](https://everytimezone.com/?t=62d89700,3c0).
